docs: release note hostname migration (#1559)
commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit: website/src/releases/hostname-migration.mdx

---
date: 2020-06-10
title: Migrate Custom Applications to the new API hostnames
description: |
  The Merchant Center is adopting a new hostname scheme and deprecating the old hostnames.\
  Therefore, Custom Applications must be updated to support both hostnames, for backwards compatibility.
type: announcement
topics:
  - Merchant Center

>   - Configuration

Author: Not 100% sure about those...suggestions are welcomed

---

Recently we [introduced a new host naming scheme](/main-concepts/api-gateway#cloud-regions) for the commercetools APIs, including the Merchant Center, to increase region and cloud provider transparency.

While the previous hostnames such as `*.sphere.io` (Google Cloud, Belgium), `*.commercetools.com` (Google Cloud, Belgium), and `*.commercetools.co` (Google Cloud, Iowa) continue to be operational, we **strongly recommend** to migrate to the new hostname structure.

In regards to Custom Applications, the [runtime configuration](/deployment/runtime-configuration) needs to be updated to **support both the new and the legacy hostnames**, to allow users to log in with the new Merchant Center hostname and to be backwards compatible with the legacy hostnames.

> 

Reviewer: 1.) The comma after` legacy hostnames` should be eliminated.  

2.) A comma _may_  be added after the `new Merchant Center hostname...`, but it comes down to preference. 
                 The "and" naturally lets the audience take a figurative breath in the sentence, but a comma wouldn't 
                  hurt nor be grammatically incorrect.

(thanks to Charles Thompson for looking at this)

Here are the steps to take.

<!--more-->

# 1. Update the `env.json`

Change the `mcApiUrl` in the [`env.json`](/deployment/runtime-configuration#envjson) to use the new hostname.

For example:

```json title="Changing the hostname for GCP EU" highlightLines="4"
{
  "applicationName": "merchant-center-application-template-starter",
  "frontendHost": "localhost:3001",
  "mcApiUrl": "https://mc-api.europe-west1.gcp.commercetools.com",
  "location": "eu",
  "env": "development",
  "cdnUrl": "http://localhost:3001",
  "servedByProxy": false
}
```

<Info>

> In production, the `<ApplicationShell>` takes care of inferring the correct [Merchant Center Gateway API hostname](/main-concepts/api-gateway#hostnames) based on the Merchant Center hostname that the user is logged into.

Reviewer 2: I think we should note the correct version required here too? So that it's a requirement to update to vx.y.z?

Author: Good point, I'll add that 👌

This results in the Custom Application to work in both new and legacy hostnames, even though the `mcApiUrl` is configured to a specific value.

</Info>

# 2. Update the `headers.json`

Update the [Content Security Policy](/deployment/runtime-configuration#content-security-policy) to allow both new and legacy hostnames.

For example:

```json title="Updating the Content Security Policy for GCP EU" highlightLines="6-7"
{
  "csp": {
    "script-src": ["my-app.now.sh"],
    "connect-src": [
      "my-app.now.sh",
      "mc-api.europe-west1.gcp.commercetools.com",
      "mc-api.commercetools.com"
    ],
    "style-src": ["my-app.now.sh"]
  }
}
```

# 3. Re-deploy the Custom Application

> That's it, re-deploy the Custom Application with the updated configuration. Users can now access the Custom Application using both new and legacy hostnames (for backwards compatibility).

Reviewer: ` That's it, re-deploy`.....The comma should be replaced with a semicolon or a period (preferably a period in this case).

date: 2020-06-10
title: Migrate Custom Applications to the new host naming scheme
description: |
  The Merchant Center is adopting a new host naming scheme and deprecating the old hostnames.\
  Therefore, Custom Applications must be updated to support both hostnames, for backwards compatibility.
type: announcement
topics:
  - Merchant Center
  - Configuration
---

Recently we [introduced a new host naming scheme](/main-concepts/api-gateway#cloud-regions) for the commercetools APIs, including the Merchant Center, to increase region and cloud provider transparency.

While the previous hostnames such as `*.sphere.io` (Google Cloud, Belgium), `*.commercetools.com` (Google Cloud, Belgium), and `*.commercetools.co` (Google Cloud, Iowa) continue to be operational, we **strongly recommend** to migrate to the new hostname structure.

In regards to Custom Applications, the [runtime configuration](/deployment/runtime-configuration) needs to be updated to **support both the new and the legacy hostnames** to allow users to log in with the new Merchant Center hostname, and to be backwards compatible with the legacy hostnames.

Here are the steps to take.

<!--more-->

# 1. Update dependencies

> Some of the features related to the new hostnames are available from version `>= 16.2.1` of the `@commercetools-frontend/application-shell` package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend to update to a version `>= 16.2.1` of the `@commercetools-frontend/application-shell` package as some of the functionality related ease the upgrade to the new hostnames has been made available from that version.
```

To update all the application KIT packages to a specific version, you can use the following script:

```console noPromptLines="2-4"
npx bulk-update-versions \
  --match '^@commercetools-frontend/(?!ui-kit)(.*)' \
  --force-latest

yarn install
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add: Make sure you take account for any potential breaking changes document in our changelog from your current version.?
